# LIPburp

Greenhouse gas emissions from repeated geological events within Large Igneous Provinces.

The primary reference is, "Jones, S. M., Hoggett, M., Greene, S. E. & Dunkley Jones, T.,  Large Igneous Province thermogenic greenhouse gas flux could have initiated Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum climate change, Nature Communications, in press Sept 2019," referred to below as Jea19.

This archive contains the code that can be adapted to any LIP, and to any type of geological emissions events that can be represented using the tapered power law parameterisation.  See GitHub smj75/NAIPburp for results of using these scripts to estimate greenhouse gas emissions histories from the North Atlantic Igneous Sill province.  

## *simulate_const_trec.sh

Generates multiple carbon emissions histories for an LIP sill province, assuming constant t_repeat. 

## *simulate_var_trec.sh*

Generates multiple carbon emissions histories for an LIP sill province, assuming t_repeat varies according to a model for formation of the North Atlantic Igneous Province (NAIP) sill province.

## *make_dimensions.awk*

Translates a list of random numbers into sill dimensions and host rock characteristics for each sill.  

## *dim2mtp.awk*

Converts sill dimension list from make_dimensions.awk into the 3 parameters required by the tapered power-law emissions parameterisation developed in Jea19.  Results of the thermogenic methane parameterisation obtained in smj75/sillburp can be used in this script.  

## *LIP_emissions_model.awk*

(a) Assigns times and locations to sill parameter list from dim2mtp.awk.
(b) Calculates combined emissions history.

## *all_histories.gmt*

Plots multiple carbon emissions histories generated by LIP_emissions_model.awk using GMT (Generic Mapping Tools).  Calculates mean and standard deviation of stack.  


